coreference:1:-----------------------------
Fate of Achilles ' armor .
Achilles ' armor was the object of a feud between Odysseus and Telamonian Ajax ( Ajax the greater ) .
They competed for it by giving speeches on why they were the bravest after Achilles to their Trojan prisoners , who after considering both men came to a consensus in favor of Odysseus .
Furious , Ajax cursed Odysseus , which earned the ire of Athena .
Athena temporarily made Ajax so mad with grief and anguish that he began killing sheep , thinking they were his comrades .
After a while , when Athena lifted his madness and Ajax realized that he had actually been killing sheep , he was so embarrassed that he committed suicide .
Odysseus eventually gave the armor to Neoptolemus , the son of Achilles .
A relic claimed to be Achilles ' bronze-headed spear was for centuries preserved in the temple of Athena on the acropolis of Phaselis , Lycia , a port on the Pamphylian Gulf .
The city was visited in 333 BC by Alexander the Great , who envisioned himself as the new Achilles and carried the `` Iliad '' with him , but his court biographers do not mention the spear , which he would indeed have touched with excitement .
coreference:16:-----------------------------
In a letter that Ahmed Jabari sent to Khaled Meshal he warned him that security situation Gaza is getting worse as it was reported by Arabic-language newspaper A-Sharq Al-Awsat .
Jabari wrote that Gaza is falling into anarchy Ancient history until the mid-16th century ( 15th century BC-1517 ) .
The first mention of the city of Gaza was when the people from Caphtor island ( known as the Greek island Crete of today ) slaughtered the native people named as Avvites and moved in , then later in the 15th century BC , where Joshua , leading the children of Israel captures Gaza , with other territory , establishing the nation in the Holy Land .
In the Old Testament , after Samson was delivered into bondage by Delilah , he died while toppling the Temple of the god Dagon there .
In the 13th century BC the area was taken over by the Philistines , whose coastal power base of Philistia approximated roughly to the modern Strip .
The name `` Palestine '' is derived from `` Philistia '' and `` Philistines '' , via the Greek and Latin languages .
The Gaza area changed hands many times over the next 2,000 years .
It fell , successively , to the Israelite King David ( in 1000 BC ) , to the Assyrians ( in 732 BC ) , Egyptians , Babylonians ( in 586 BC ) , Persians ( in 525 BC ) , and Greeks .
Alexander the Great met stiff resistance there ( in 332 BC ) .
coreference:31:-----------------------------

<sectionStart>
Mesopotamia .
Mesopotamia ( from Greek `` [ land ] between the rivers '' , rendered in Arabic as ' ) is a toponym for the area of the Tigris-Euphrates river system , along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers , largely corresponding to modern Iraq , as well as some parts of northeastern Syria , some parts of southeastern Turkey , and some parts of the Khūzestān Province of southwestern Iran .
Widely considered as the cradle of civilization , Bronze Age Mesopotamia included Sumer and the Akkadian , Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
In the Iron Age , it was ruled by the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian empires .
The indigenous Sumerians and Akkadians ( including Assyrians & Babylonians ) dominated Mesopotamia from the dawn of written history circa 3100 BC to the fall of Babylon in 539 BC .
It was then conquered by the Achaemenid Empire .
It fell to Alexander the Great in 332 BC and after his death it became part of the Greek Seleucid Empire , by around 150 BC Mesopotamia was under the control of the Parthians .
coreference:40:-----------------------------
A year afterward , Phrynicus produced the tragedy `` The Capture of Miletus '' in Athens .
The Athenians fined him for reminding them of their loss .
Classical period .
Its gridlike layout , planned by Hippodamos , became the basic layout for Roman cities .
In 479 BC , the Greeks decisively defeated the Persians at the Greek mainland , and Miletus was freed of Persian rule .
During this time several other cities were formed by Milesian settlers , spanning across what is now Turkey and even as far as Crimea .
The eponymous founder of the bawdy Miletian school of literature Aristides of Miletus taught here .
Alexandrian period .
In 334 BC , the city was liberated from Persian rule by Alexander the Great .
coreference:71:-----------------------------
It appears Egyptian contact peaked during the 19th dynasty , only to decline during the 20th and 21st dynasties .
Although the archaeological evidence seems to indicate a brief resurgence during the 22nd and 23rd dynasties , it is clear after the Third Intermediate Period the Egyptians started favoring Tyre and Sidon instead of Byblos .
Archaeological evidence at Byblos , dating back to around 1200 BC , shows existence of a Phoenician alphabetic script of twenty-two characters ; an important example of this script is the sarcophagus of king Ahiram .
The use of the alphabet was spread by Phoenician merchants through their maritime trade into parts of North Africa and Europe .
One of the most important monuments of this period is the temple of Resheph , a Canaanite war god , but this had fallen into ruins by the time of Alexander .
In the Assyrian period , Sibittibaal of Byblos became tributary to Tiglath-pileser III in 738 BC , and in 701 BC , when Sennacherib conquered all Phoenicia , the king of Byblos was Urumilki .
Byblos was also subject to Assyrian kings Esarhaddon ( r.681-669 BCE ) and Ashurbanipal ( r.668-627 BCE ) , under its own kings Milkiasaph and Yehawmelek .
In the Persian period ( 538-332 BC ) , Byblos was the fourth of four Phoenician vassal kingdoms established by the Persians ; the first three being Sidon , Tyre , and Arwad .
Hellenistic rule came with the arrival of Alexander the Great in the area in 332 BC .
coreference:79:-----------------------------
<sectionStart>
Umm Qasr .
Umm Qasr ( , also transliterated as : `` Um-qasir '' , `` Um-qasser '' ) , is a port city in southern Iraq .
It stands on the canalised Khawr az-Zubayr , part of the Khawr Abd Allah estuary which leads to the Persian Gulf .
It is separated from the border of Kuwait by a small inlet .
A bridge across the waterway linked the port with Kuwait prior to the 1991 Persian Gulf War .
Village to Port .
Umm Qasr was originally a small fishing town , but was used as a military port on several occasions before advancing trades and jobs by building a deep-water port on the coast .
It was said to have been the site of Alexander the Great 's landing in Mesopotamia in 325 BC .
coreference:80:-----------------------------
Before 1971 it was known as Hilla province .
The ancient city of Babylon in present-day Babil province was the capital of the Old Kingdom of Babylonia situated on the Euphrates River south of modern Baghdad , Iraq .
The city was occupied from the 3rd millennium BC but became important early in the 2nd millennium under the kings of the First Dynasty of Babylon .
The sixth king of this dynasty was Hammurabi ( 1792-1750 BC ) who made Babylon the capital of a vast empire and is best remembered for his code of laws .
This period was brought to an end by the Hittites when in 1595 BC Babylon is sacked by King Mursili I .
The city then had a mixed history until the Neo-Babylonian Period of the 7th-6th centuries BC .
It once again achieved pre-eminence when Nebuchadnezzar II ( 605-562 BC ) extended the Chaldean Empire over most of Western Asia .
Babylon fell to Cyrus the Great of Persia in 539 BC ; occupation continued in the Achaemenid Period .
The city was taken by Alexander the Great in 331 BC .
coreference:84:-----------------------------
It was established after the 1893 Durand Line Agreement between the Government of colonial British India and Afghan Amir Abdur Rahman Khan for fixing the limit of their respective spheres of influence .
It is named after Henry Mortimer Durand , the Foreign Secretary of British India at the time .
The single-page agreement which contains seven short articles was signed by H. M. Durand and Amir Abdur Rahman Khan , agreeing not to exercise interference beyond the frontier line between Afghanistan and what was then colonial British India ( now Pakistan ) .
A joint British-Afghan demarcation survey took place starting from 1894 , covering some 800 miles of the border .
The resulting Durand Line established the `` Great Game '' buffer zone between British and Russian interests in the region .
This poorly marked border cuts through the Pashtun tribal area and lies in one of the most dangerous places in the world .
Although shown on most maps as the western international border of Pakistan , it is unrecognized by Afghanistan .
History .
The area in which the border runs has been inhabited by ethnic Pashtun tribes since at least the time of Alexander the Great in 330 BC .
coreference:93:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Sestos .
Sestos ( ) was an ancient Greek town of the Thracian Chersonese , the modern Gallipoli peninsula in European Turkey .
Situated on the Hellespont opposite Abydos , it was the home of Hero in the legend of Hero and Leander .
Sestos was an Aeolian colony , as it was founded by settlers from Lesbos .
The ruins of the town are near to Eceabat .
Xerxes ' army crossed at this point on a bridge in 480 BC , and most of Alexander the Great 's forces went the other way here by boat in 334 BC .
coreference:144:-----------------------------
Etymology .
Anamur has mutated from the Greek `` Anemourion '' ( `` Ανεμούριον '' ) meaning `` windy point '' .
History .
Founded by the Phoenicians , the city was then occupied by the Assyrians and Hittites .
During the Hittite period in the twelfth century B.C. , the ruler Tuthalia IV , granted Anemorium to Mattuvata who had taken refuge in his kingdom .
Mattuvata took advantage of the Hittites’ weakness , establishing his own kingdom with Anemorium as its capital .
His rule extended as far as Afyon , in central Anatolia.At the end of the 12th century the area was occupied by a nomadic tribe that had come from across the Caucasus mountains.The tribe was called by the ancient Greeks the `` Wind people '' ( Ανέμου γένος ) after whom the city was named.The exact reasons behind this name are lost in time.The most probable explanation however , is that they worshiped a god of wind , perhaps similar to the Greek Aeolus , as their main deity .
Then the city came under the control of the Phoenicions again , and later Persians .
In 333 BC Alexander the Great brought this coast within his Macedonian Empire , and he was succeeded by Seleucids and then Ancient Romans .
coreference:147:-----------------------------
Possessing a natural harbour , Patara was said to have been founded by Patarus , a son of Apollo .
It was situated at a distance of 60 stadia to the southeast of the mouth of the river Xanthos .
Patara was noted in antiquity for its temple and oracle of Apollo , second only to that of Delphi .
The god is often mentioned with the surname `` Patareus '' .
Herodotus says that the oracle of Apollo was delivered by a priestess only during a certain period of the year ; and from Servius we learn that this period was the six winter months .
It seems certain that Patara received Dorian settlers from Crete ; and the worship of Apollo was certainly Dorian .
Ancient writers mentioned Patara as one of the principal cities of Lycia .
It was Lycia 's primary seaport , and a leading city of the Lycian League , having 3 votes , the maximum .
The city , with the rest of Lycia , surrendered to Alexander the Great in 333 BC .
coreference:148:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Gedrosia .
Gedrosia ( ; ) is the ancient name of an area that corresponds to today 's Balochistan .
Eastern Balochistan is southwestern province of Pakistan and parts of southwestern and south-central Afghanistan and western Balochistan is divided between Iranian provinces of Hormozgan and Sistan va Baluchestan .
The area which is named Gedrosia , in books about Alexander the Great and his successors , runs from the Indus River to the southern edge of the Strait of Hormuz .
It is directly to the south of the ancient provinces of Arachosia and Drangiana , to the east of Carmania and due west of the Kingdoms of Ancient India .
In 325 BC , Alexander the Great crossed the area on his way back to Babylon after campaigning in the east .
coreference:153:-----------------------------
Another legend states that the winged horse Pegasus was lost and landed here , hurting his foot , and thus the city was named `` tar-sos '' ( `` the sole of the foot '' ) .
Other candidates for legendary founder of the city include the hero Perseus and Triptolemus son of the earth-goddess Demeter , doubtless because the countryside around Tarsus is excellent farmland .
Later the coinage of Tarsus bore the image of Hercules , due to yet another tale in which the hero was held prisoner here by the local god Sandon .
Tarsus has been suggested as a possible identification of the biblical Tarshish , where the prophet Jonah wanted to flee , but Tartessos in Spain is a more likely identification for this .
( See further ) Early antiquity , Greece and Persia .
In historical times , the city was first ruled by the Hittites , followed by Assyria , and then the Persian Empire .
Tarsus was the seat of a Persian satrapy from 400 BC onward .
Indeed , Xenophon records that in 401 BC , when Cyrus the Younger marched against Babylon , the city was governed by King Syennesis in the name of the Persian monarch .
Alexander the Great passed through with his armies in 333 BC and nearly met his death here after a bath in the Cydnus .
coreference:155:-----------------------------
The population of the city is 83 832 as of 2009 .
It is the ancient Assyrian city , which Alexander 's successors refounded as Antiochia Mygdonia ( ) and is mentioned for the first time in Polybius ' description of the march of Antiochus I against the Molon ( Polybius , V , 51 ) .
Greek historian Plutarch suggested that the city was populated by Spartan descendants .
The Assyrian name for the town is `` Soba '' .
The Armenian name is `` Mtsbin '' , and the Hebrew name is `` Netzivin '' .
Ancient Period .
As early as 852 BC , Nisibis was part of the Neo Assyrian Empire , and appeared in the Assyrian Eponym List as the seat of an Assyrian provincial governor named Shamash-Abua .
It remained part of the Assyrian Empire until its collapse in 608 BC .
It was under Babylonian control until 536 BC , when it fell to the Achamaenid Persians , and remained so until taken by Alexander the Great in 332 BC .
coreference:193:-----------------------------
Greek Cypriots are mostly members of the Church of Cyprus , an autocephalous Greek Orthodox Church within the wider communion of Orthodox Christianity .
In regards to the 1960 Constitution of Cyprus , the term also includes Arabic-speaking Maronites , Armenians and Latin Rite Catholics ( `` Latins '' ) , who were given the option of being included in one or other of the two constituent communities ( Greek or Turkish ) and voted to join the Greek Cypriot community .
History .
The Greek Cypriots trace their origins to the descendants of the the Mycenaean Greeks who settled on the island during the second half of the second millennium BC .
Following Sicily and Sardinia , Cyprus is the third largest island in the eastern Mediterranean .
Its landscape is flat with little forest area .
Mount Olympus , ( also known as Chionistra ) the highest point of the Troodos Mountains ( 1952 m ) , is the highest point on the island .
The island gradually became part of the Hellenic world as the settlers prospered over the next centuries .
Alexander the Great liberated the island from the Persians in 333 BC .
coreference:200:-----------------------------
Ghulam Mohammad Ghubar , a historian from Afghanistan , talks of `` Proper Khorasan '' and `` Improper Khorasan '' in his book titled `` Khorasan '' .
According to him , Proper Khorasan contained regions lying between Balkh ( in the East ) , Merv ( in the North ) , Sijistan ( in the South ) , Nishapur ( in the West ) and Herat , known as `` The Pearl of Khorasan '' , in the center .
While Improper Khorasan 's boundaries extended to Kabul and Ghazni in the East , Sistan and Zabulistan in the South , Transoxiana and Khwarezm in the North and Damaghan and Gurgan in the West .
In Memoirs of Babur , it is mentioned that Indians called non-Hindustanis ( non-Indians ) as Khorasanis .
Regarding the boundary of Hindustan and Khorasan , it is written : `` On the road between Hindustān and Khorasān , there are two great marts : the one Kābul , the other Kandahār . ''
Thus , Improper Khorasan bordered Hindustan ( old India ) .
Historical overview .
Greater Khorasan is one of the regions of Greater Iran .
Before being conquered by Alexander the Great in 330 BC , it was part of the Achaemenid and Median Persian Empire .
coreference:216:-----------------------------
Shahrisabz .
Shahrisabz or Shahr-e Sabz ( Persian : شهر سبز , Uzbek Shahrisabz , Шахрисабз ) , is a city in Uzbekistan located approximately 80 km south of Samarkand with the population of 53,000 ( 1991 ) .
It is located at the altitude of 622 m .
Once a major city of Central Asia , it is primarily known today as the birthplace of 14th century Turco-Mongol conqueror Timur .
Its name ( شهر سبز ) means `` green city '' in Persian .
History .
Formerly known as Kesh ( i.e. , `` heart-pleasing '' ) and tentatively identified with the ancient Nautaca Shahrisabz should be counted among Central Asia’s most ancient cities .
Alexander the Great 's general Ptolemy captured the satrap of Bactria and pretender to the Persian throne , Bessus , at Nautaca thus ending the once great Achaemenid Empire .
Alexander the Great chose to spend his winters and met his wife Roxanna in the area in 328-327 BC .
coreference:318:-----------------------------
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Alinda .
Alinda ( Ἄλινδα ) was an ancient inland city of Caria in Anatolia .
It is situated on a hilltop which commands the modern-day town of Karpuzlu , Aydın Province , in western Turkey , and overlooks a fertile plain .
Alinda could have been an important city since the second millennium BC and has been associated with Ialanti that appears in Hittite sources ( J. Garstang , p. 179 ) .
It was this fortress which was held by the exiled Carian Queen Ada .
She greeted Alexander the Great here in 334 BC .
coreference:344:-----------------------------
It lies 30 kilometres to the north-west of Antalya .
It was founded on a natural platform on top of Güllük Dağı , soaring to a height of 1.665 metres from among the surrounding travertine mountains of Antalya , which average only 200 metres above sea level .
Termesos is one of the best preserved of the ancient cities of Turkey .
Termessos constitutes an unusual synthesis of a large number of rare plants and animal species , which are under protection in the Termessos National Park .
Concealed by a multitude of wild plants and bounded by dense pine forests , the site , with its peaceful and untouched appearance , has a more distinct and impressive atmosphere than other ancient cities .
Because of its natural and historical riches , the city has been included in a National Park bearing its name .
History .
The mythical founder of the city is Bellerophon .
What is known of the history commences principally at the time that Alexander the Great surrounded the city in 333 BC , which he likened to an eagle 's nest and failed to conquer .
coreference:368:-----------------------------
Even with these changes history still continues much as it did on our Earth , with a few exceptions .
One flashback in the book is dated September 15 , 2001 , but makes no mention of the September 11 , 2001 attacks .
<sectionEnd>

<sectionStart>
Pitane ( Aeolis ) .
Pitane ( near Çandarlı , Turkey ) was an ancient Greek town of Aeolis , in Asia Minor .
In ancient times it was a port city and a member of the Delian League .
About 334 BC , Alexander the Great tried to take over the city , but was repulsed by Memnon of Rhodes and 5,000 Greek mercenaries provided by Darius III of Persia .
